From: prb@aps.org <prb@aps.org>
Sent: 24 October 2022 19:33
To: Gazzaneo, Paolo
Subject: Your_manuscript BW13806 Gazzaneo
 
Re: BW13806
    Impact ionization processes in a photodriven Mott insulator: Influence
    of phononic dissipation
    by Paolo Gazzaneo, Tommaso Maria Mazzocchi, Jan Lotze, et al.

Dear Dr. Gazzaneo,

The above manuscript has been reviewed by two of our referees.
Comments from the reports appear below for your consideration.

When you resubmit your manuscript, please include a summary of the
changes made and a brief response to all recommendations and
criticisms.

Yours sincerely,

Sarma Kancharla
Associate Editor
Physical Review B
Email: prb@aps.org
https://journals.aps.org/prb/
Physical Review B
journals.aps.org
Physical Review B


Follow us on Twitter @PhysRevB

NEWS FROM THE PHYSICAL REVIEW JOURNALS

PRX Energy is now open for submissions
https://go.aps.org/3lNdIqK
	
PRX Energy
go.aps.org
PRX Energy will be a highly selective, open access journal featuring energy research with an emphasis on lasting and profound impact.



----------------------------------------------------------------------
Report of the First Referee -- BW13806/Gazzaneo
----------------------------------------------------------------------

In the present paper a model for photovoltaic energy collection
consisting of a Mott insulating layer in the presence of acoustic
phonons, coupled to two wideband fermion leads and driven into a
nonequilibrium steady state by a periodic electric field, is studied.
This study is done using nonequilibrium dynamical mean-field theory
(DMFT) and it includes dissipation by acoustic phonons.

The study is done in two regimes: of small and large hybridization
strength to the leads. In the former regime, a peak in the
photocurrent as a function of the driving frequency which can be
associated with impact ionization processes was found. In the latter
regime a shallow peak seen suggests a suppression of impact ionization
with respect to direct photovoltaic excitations. In addition, the role
of acoustic phonons was investigated.

The work is certainly impressive, thorough and very interesting for
both its fundamental aspects as well as for the lessons learned for
potential future unconventional and revolutionary applications of
light-to-electricity conversion.

I have the following comments and questions for the authors’ future
work:

1. As the authors pointed out the electric field amplitude considered
in this paper is several orders of magnitude larger than that of the
sunlight, therefore, strictly speaking the results presented in the
present paper are more applicable to intense laser-light
photoexcitations

2. The authors have made an effort to extrapolate in the regime of
smaller electric field amplitude and smaller hybridization strength.
They note that in order to achieve the latter one would need to
several layers where photexcited carriers separated by an electric
field gradient would have more time to induce impact ionization before
escaping into the leads.

3. The authors plan in future investigation to address the previously
mentioned issue.

4. I would like to suggest that, perhaps, the authors, in their future
investigations, could include the role of “bad” metallic contacts,
maybe represented by narrow-band leads or possibly with a small-width
insulating barrier between the leads and the material as abstracted by
the Hubbard-like model studied. If the insulating barrier is
microscopically small the carriers would still be able to tunnel, but
perhaps would remain longer in the region of the material which might
allow II to occur.

In conclusion, this is an excellent work which sheds important light
on the issue of how to use strongly correlated insulators to enhanced
photovoltaic efficiency.

I recommend publication in Physical Review B without hesitation.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Report of the Second Referee -- BW13806/Gazzaneo
----------------------------------------------------------------------

In this work, the authors consider nonequilibrium steady-state current
in a layer system modeled by Hubbard model with phonon interaction,
when the system is also coupled to leads. The authors find interesting
results, especially a combined effects of hybridization to the leads
and phonons on impact ionization. This is a very complicated problem (
as almost all non-trivial nonequilibrium problems, especially in
strongly correlated case), were most of new results are valuable and
insightful. Thus, despite some possibly crude approximations and an
approximated relation to "reality", I believe the paper has to be
published in Physical Review B.

However, the authors should take seriously the following points which
should be also explicitly discussed in the text:

1. It is really important to discuss why DMFT approximation is
expected to be meaningful in quasi-2D case (1-layer Hubbard model
coupled to leads).

2. It seems that chosen temperature is pretty high. Please discuss why
optical phonons are neglected.

3. It is naturally expected that phonons reduce the bandgap (here,
pseudogap), as in standard semiconductors, where the phonons give
10-100meV reduction of the gap and the effect increases with
temperature. Strictly speaking, to obtain the change of the
bandstructure due to phonons one needs to calculate the Fan and DW
terms of the , generally speaking, momentum-dependent electron
self-energy. In this sense, again, how important are momentum
dependencies of electron Sigma in 2D case?

4. It is not clear from Conclusions (at least for me) what stopped the
authors to consider more realistic weaker fields and hybridizations.
